He can find a fire before it starts to flame.
That's why they call him Smokey.
That was how he got his name.
Hi there, friends.
I'm Billy Johnson, your singing woodsman.
Glad you could come this way up the trail.
How about having a seat beside me here on this log under the old pine tree?
Mighty pretty out here in the forest, isn't it?
That's because we've kept fires from running wild through here.
You know, we thought you might enjoy taking time out for a few moments of song and a story or two about our rangelands.
Just across the trail there are those masters of song about America's great outdoors, the Sons of the Pioneers.
And here's Lloyd Perryman.
Our first song is about that fine fellow who works closest to the cattle and grass, the cow folk.
Now, he's got a real stake, and I'm not trying to be funny.
He's got a real stake in keeping the grass growing and the cattle fat, the cowpoke.
I'm lonesome but happy, rich but I'm broke, and the good Lord knows the reason I'm just a cowpoke.
From Cheyenne to Douglas, all the ranges I know Cause adrift with the wind, no one cares where I go I ain't got a dime in these old wore-out jeans So I'll stop eatin' steak and I'll go back to beans
I'll pick up a tin spot in Prescott.
I know we're riding the Bronx in the big rodeo.
Some evening in springtime, a filly I'll find and I might spend all summer on my mind.
but i'll never be branded never be broke i'm a carefree range riding driftin couple who who who who who
I guess just about everybody knows what the range country looks like with all the cowboy pictures we've seen and with all the traveling folks are doing these days across the country.
But I wonder how many of us realize just how much the range lands mean to us in terms of meat for the table, leather gloves and jackets and shoes for all of us.
And of course the grass and other plants on the range do more than serve as food for livestock.
They also serve as a protective cover for the land itself.
And where you've got such protection, you're not likely to have erosion or serious floods.
Oh, we get a lot from our rangeland, all right.
And not the least of it, beauty.
So typically American, especially at night.
Mm-hmm, mm-hmm, mm-hmm, mm-hmm, mm-hmm, mm-hmm, mm-hmm, mm-hmm, mm-hmm, mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
When the curtains of night are pinned back by the stars and the beautiful moon sweeps the sky,
I'll remember you, love, in my prayers.
When the curtains of night are pinned back,
by the stars and the dew drops of heaven kiss the rose I'll remember you love in my prayers yes it's usually cool and peaceful on the range at night but during the day in the summer months the open range can get tender dry from the hot sun for the lack of rain because they are so open
That makes them especially vulnerable to widespread damage from fire.
It doesn't take much to start a terrible range fire racing across the land.
A lighted match carelessly flipped aside, or a burning cigarette thoughtlessly flipped from a car window.
That's all it takes.
Now, I'm sure the sons of the pioneers have had personal experiences along this line.
How about it, Lloyd?
Well, we're talking about the range and range fires.
Tommy Doss has some ideas on this.
What do you say we hear them, Tommy?
I was just thinking how pretty a well-managed protected range is.
With enough grass and other forage growing to accommodate a good herd of cattle or sheep.
Enough grass to go around and still be left in condition to produce a new crop year after year.
There's real beauty there.
Man and nature and livestock all in tune, you might say.
Then...
As I've seen for myself, someone lets fire loose and, well, everything's out of tune.
You know what I mean, Lloyd?
I sure do, Tommy, and I know, too, that your intelligent cowboy isn't usually the guy who lets the fire get loose and the grass that gives him is living.
Everyone can take a lesson from him and be careful with fire anywhere near the range.
But now, Tommy, get a straddle of that horse of yours because roundup time is over.
Everything's lookin' bright and my heart's feelin' right And the world is mine for round-up time is over Every cowboy I know, Curly, Slim, Jack and Joe They're feelin' fine for round-up time is over
See that little doggie hurry to the pole Yes, he knows just how I feel Spirit's high, clear blue sky, so why should he be told That way out here a cowboy's life is real Let the sun fill the sky, let the wild coyotes ride Everything's in rhyme, round-up time is over Hear the cowboys singing, they're a-feeling mighty gay
Roundup time is over and their cares are laid away.
See the doggies millin' with the brand new branded high.
They were born a year ago and that's why cowboys ride.
Everything's lookin' bright and my heart's feelin' right.
And the world is mine for roundup time is over.
Every cowboy I know, Curly, Slim, Jack and Joe, they're feelin' fine for roundup time is over.
See that little dogey hurry to the fore, guess he knows just how I feel.
Spirits high, clear blue sky, so why should he be told that way out here a cowboy's life is real?
Let the sun fill the sky, let the wild coyotes cry.
Everything's in rhyme for roundup time, roundup time is over on the race.
Roundup time is over.
Yes, sir, every year for some ranchers, roundup time is over before it's even started.
Usually because someone was careless with fire.
And they can be terrible, these range fires.
They not only damage valuable grazing lands and watersheds, but sometimes they even burn up livestock, farms, and ranches.
I wonder if you remember one of the big range fires that hit in a western state a while back.
It all started one day when a rancher decided to burn the rubbish in his wheat field.
He took a good look at the sky and figured that the weather was right and decided it was safe enough to take a chance.
Well, sir, as the rubbish burned, something happened.
The usual thing.
The unpredictable wind came up and pretty soon it was blowing at 50 miles an hour.
That rancher's rubbish fire spread across his own grazing land and
roared on across the ranges of his friends and neighbors.
It took 500 men to lick the fire.
Four men were killed, and a number of them suffered burns and other injuries.
50,000 acres of grazing land burned.
Cattle were killed and tons of hay were consumed.
Do you remember what the price of that rubbish fire was?
$300,000.
You can imagine how awful that rancher felt.
The sad truth, friends, is that we do pay an awful price for carelessness.
We've just got to be extra careful with matches, smokes, campfires, rubbish fires, any fire.
I've got a yarn I'd like to spin.
If you don't mind, I'll start right in about the meanest horse I ever knew.
Well, I got aboard this onerous brute that ever jumped out from a chute, and with each jump, that critter tossed a shoe.
Well, I grabbed a horn, I grabbed some hair, I really grabbed most everywhere, and the way he squealed and bellowed was a sin.
He made a jump, then turned around, I made a deal, hit the ground, bounced right up, and started in again.
He's a killer, he's a killer, killer dealer, killer dealer, he's a graveyard filler off the west.
As I was saying before I quit, I grabbed a horn, I pulled a bit, I rode that ornery critter like a dog.
He turned around and said to me, old cowboy, you just wait and see, I'll water you just like a hairy hawk.
Well, a crowd applauded out with glee, and the bronco looked again at me and said, I'll tell you what I'm gonna do.
You've made a mess of things, old kid.
You blew your top, flipped your lid.
You shouldn't have oughta done it.
Now you're through.
Well, I don't know, but I've been told that lightning flashed, thunder rolled, and a cyclone hit the seat where I was set.
They picked me up, the doctor said they had to tie me up in bed, cause I was goofy, crazy as a bat.
Well, the moral of this story is, if you ain't young and full of fish, you better keep your feet down on the ground.
Don't hit the saddle of a steed that lived for years on local weed, that is, if you still want to be around.
He's a killer, he's a killer, killer dealer, killer dealer, he's a graveyard filler of the West.
well i lost my hair my teeth came out my feet went flat and i got together but i finally made a big decision i'm all right now but i'm telling you with breaking broncos boy i'm through from here on out i'm watching it on television television television television television from here on out i'm watching television
Well, will you look who's coming up the trail now?
Big as life with his ranger's hat and shovel and all togged out in dungarees.
He's the friend of all who love the outdoors.
He's the popular candidate, the people's choice for support this year and every year.
He's Smokey Bear with a special message for us.
Hello there, friends.
I just want to put in a kind word for some fine supporters of mine, the farmers and ranchers of this country.
They work mighty hard at their business of producing meat and other food for your table.
And they always have to battle the weather to do their job.
Too much rain or not enough rain.
Wind storms or snow storms.
Extreme heat or extreme cold.
So please don't add to their problems.
Be careful with fire outdoors.
Well, I'll be seeing you.
And there he goes down the trail.
Thank you, Smokey.
Well, friends, I suppose it's time for you to head back down the trail, too.
Thanks a lot for joining us under the old pine tree.
You know, it's your own state forestry department, along with the United States Forest Service, and this station you're listening to that make these little outdoor get-togethers possible.
Until we say hi to each other again, this is Billy Johnson, your singing woodsman, and those masters of outdoor songs, the Sons of the Pioneers, asking you to please keep in mind what Smokey Bear says.
Remember, only we, you and I, can prevent forest, woods, and range fires.
Smokey the Bear, Smokey the Bear
Growlin' and a-growlin' and a-sniffin' the air He can find a fire before he starts to flame That's why they call him Smokey, that was how he got his name Smokey the Bear, Smokey the Bear
Prowlin' and a-growlin' and a-sniffin' the air.
He can find the fire before it starts to flame.
That's why they call him Smokey, that was how he got his name.
Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh.
Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh.
Thank you.